Some people are fancy, and some people are incredibly fancy. Here are some standout fashions or guidelines of what a culture could wear. It is assumed that what is described is the most notable parts of an outfit.


&nbsp;


D12 Fashions

1. Twenty-four snakeskins sewn into a leotard that drapes to the knees, heads removed of their venom glands and arranged in a fanged collar to keep the neck straight. Attached flounced sleeves made of pearly fabric.

2. Woolen traveling cape covered in flaking paint: a political mural piece depicting fifteen souls with arrows in their necks, running through a forest. Tall leather boots and a scented fox-fur stole.

3. Almost translucent wrap with chainmail wrought to look like the branches of a withered tree, pearls and topaz fashioned into fruit. Cherrywood false fingernails.

4. Close-fit cowl made from old coins sewn onto a soft cloth hood. Pinstripe blouse with gathered sleeves and a quilt dress like a peeling tree with scraps falling as they walk.

5. Heavy, stiff overgown in extremely deep purple with fingerbone toggles. Lighter white smock but very little else underneath, lapis lazuli choker and rings on the extremities. Bare feet and ankles coated with shit, blood, bile, filth.

6. Pale rose robes and a tin mask replicating a blank, grinning human face. The robes are half-untied and reveal constant glimpses of bare torso while walking.

7. Too-large shirt buttoned up wrong, sleeves and chest tied tight to the wearer with crimson ribbons. High-waisted plaid trousers and soft-soled indoor shoes. A ring on every finger and toe, their footsteps jangle.

8. Sabatons and greaves done in plain steel: kneecaps decorated like open mouths with copper-capped teeth, calves honeycombed with hexagons, toes a single armor-puncturing spike. Puffy bloomers holding it all up.

9. Blatantly armored breastplate emblazoned with a sigil of serpents. One wide and cavernous sleeve containing an actual viper, trained to respond to an Incrow's delicate song.

10. Voluminous shawl and draping gown, cinched to make the waist appear impossibly narrow. Upper half of the face hidden behind a chainmail screen and a wide-brimmed hat besides; there is a sparrow's head pinned to the hat.

11. Jacket in bold slashes of maroon, epaulettes shaped like the snarling upper jaws of hounds. A long train of a dress cut to expose the legs, stained with mildew.

12. Blouse with a collar like a gold-chased dandelion; each 'petal' is embroidered with the names of each and every Ashen Child in order, also in gold thread. Trousers decorated with small crescent moons.


&nbsp;


Some other identifiers, or notable trinkets.

D20 Identifiers

1. A chemically-cultivated crop of blemishes, moles, skin tags, and mottling in imitation of a noble crest.

2. Thick coat of glaze on the face, neck, and exposed chest over complexion-appropriate makeup. Previous laughter has cracked the glaze and makes their face look lopsided and about to fall off.

3. A false nose on a long loop of chain. Made of silver with tiny tusks or horns curling out from the sculpted nostrils.

4. Helmet like a tin colander, woven in with blonde curls; in a ring at its top, sprout out ten wriggling, mildly luminescent worms.

5. Twenty hollow needles painlessly stuck into the webbing between the fingers. Flowers of various types and states of bloom have been placed in the needles.

6. Their eyes are covered with eyepatches of fine gauze. Beneath, a delicate spread of mycelium grow out across their cheeks and nose, peeled off and chewed.

7. A crown of mouldering ropes have been woven into their hair, the furry fungus on it occasionally blooming into lusciously-colored but mangled-looking flowers.

8. Palms of the hands painted with black and red checkers.

9. Hollow hallow stakes stuck painlessly between the bones of the hand, large enough to hold aromatic candles.

10. Face artificially narrowed by removing the ears.

11. Left arm dip-dyed a mercurial, metallic sheen. This also makes the arm spongy, pliable, more independent.

12. One eye covered with a moth-wing patch. The insect has been petrified and stuck with an amber pin; this pin apparently also goes into the eye but does not affect vision.

13. Throat painted in layers of amber prailidalot resin, ceasing at the collarbones and jawline.

14. Palms painted dark navy, detailed with golden four-pointed stars that trail up the forearms and into the armpits.

15. A crop of soft polypore mushrooms and moss are cultivated on the back and tops of the shoulders. They bob gently at any movement.

16. Earrings made from brass and quartz, with minuscule hinges and secret compartments for liquid.

17. The trailing attention of up to three cats. Each cat is persistent and will always have a replacement if left behind or killed—otherwise, they are completely normal.

18. Ritually removed eyelids—ever watchful, to ward off curses—with twin permanent scars from the constant weeping.

19. All visible veins have been outlined in a delicate blue dye, all arteries outlined in luxurious violet. Any scars are closed with bar-piercings.

20. A diamond-shaped pin, worn on the lapel, symbol of allegiance to the High College


&nbsp;


Now these are good flavor I hope, but to note flavor is to indicate how it could be used in-game. Beyond making it easier for a party to get into different social groups and factions—high fashion being more appropriate for a social gathering or ball, certain sigils or symbols indicating faction allegiance, being covered in gore making people on the street shy away—here are some NPCs who could react to fashion:


&nbsp;


*Dantalion Petimorde, Lord Locust Eater.* +2 to reaction roll for anyone wearing the cloaks of the Pellasces Social Club, -4 reaction to any imagery connoted with the Ashen Child.

*Asdruba Bentorit.* +2 reaction to sigils referencing the Serpent Heretics, refuses to speak to anyone wearing the washed-out colors of The Devil.

*Temprus Saint Venia.* +1 reaction to hobble skirts, long gowns, or anything that obscures the shape of one's legs, -2 reaction to mushrooms or rot.

*Botis Groan, of The Last Digit.* +3 to clothing originating from the Street of Butchers, blasé reaction to nudity.